Now it's time to add content to the product catalog.
First, we need to add a heading to it.
Then, add the productive images followed by the features.
But before adding this content to the PDF page,
you should understand the PDF coordinate system.
The space in a PDF page is measured using PDF units.
The PDF specification defines PDF units as 1 inch equals to 72 PDF units.
An A4‑sized page is 8.3 inches wide and 11.7 inches in height.
When converted to PDF units,
it approximately has a width of 598 PDF units and a height of 842 PDF units.
The origin of the PDF document, or 0,
0 coordinate, is in the lower‑left corner of the document.
The y‑coordinate increases upwards from the origin and the
x‑coordinate increases to the right from the origin.
Having said that, let's start adding content to the PDF page.
First, we need to add a heading to the page.
To do that, we need to use the PDPageContentStream class.
Let's create a PDPageContentStream object,
passing in the PDF document, catalog, and the first page to it.
Now,
there are different ways in which you can create the content stream. For that,
you can use the different overloaded constructors.
The stream needs to be closed when it's done its job. So wrap it
up around try‑with‑resources. Now the text content should be
written between beginText and endText method calls. So, add
content.beginText and content.endText.
Between these,
we will add our text content. To specify the font that we want to use, let's
call the setFont method on the content stream, content, passing in the type
of font. PDFBox has a set of 14 standard fonts,
and they are defined as constants in PDType1Font class,
which can be found inside org.apache.pdfbox.pdmodel.font package.
Let's use Helvetica. So do PDType1Font.HELVETICA. Keep the font
size as 16 because this is the heading. Now,
before we add the heading,
we need to position it by giving the x and y‑coordinates. For
this, we call the method newLineAtOffset on the content
stream, passing in values for x and y.
I'm giving x as 30 and y as 750. What does this mean? Well, it means that we
are going to start writing the heading at 30 units from the x‑axis to the
right and 750 units from the y‑axis to the top,
which is approximately at this position.
Then, to add the heading, call the showText method on the content
stream and give the text as FURNITURE ‑ CHAIRS.
If you save and run the application now, you can see the heading
appearing at the top of the page like this.
You can try changing the position of the heading text by changing the x and y values in newLineAtOffset method.